# Daisy

Daisy is an embedded platform for music. It features everything you need for creating high fidelity audio hardware devices.

Currently daisy platform is supported for:

* `pod`
* `petal`
* `patch`
* `patch_init`
* `field`

Which can be configured using the `-m` metadata.json `daisy.board` setting:

```json
{
    "daisy": {
        "board": "pod"
    }
}
```

However one can also create custom board layouts. See [the Electro-Smith documentation](https://github.com/electro-smith/DaisyWiki/wiki/Pd2dsy-Guide) for more information.

The custom layout can be passed on via the meta.json as such:

```json
{
    "daisy": {
        "board_file": <path to board.json>
    }
}
```

You can also set a custom path to your libDaisy directory. This can either be a string to the full or relative path or a number indicating the levels deep this directory is compared to the output directory. The default value for this is `2`.

```json
{
    "daisy": {
        "libdaisy_path": "/somewhere/libdaisy/"
    }
}
```

Or the level:

```json
{
    "daisy": {
        "libdaisy_path": 5
    }
}
```

## MIDI

Board files that have `OOPSY_TARGET_HAS_MIDI_INPUT` configured will automatically set up UART MIDI on the default USART1 Rx and Tx pins of the Daisy (D13/14).

Additionally `usb_midi`, running on the onboard micro-usb, can be enabled separately via the meta.json

```json
{
    "daisy": {
        "usb_midi": true
    }
}
```

At the moment all midi messages will be merged between USB and UART MIDI interfaces. In the future it will likely be possible to assign additional UART pins and group them under a specific PD midi "port".

Currently supported MIDI messages are: Note On/Off, Poly Aftertouch, Control Change, Program Change, Channel Pressure, Pitch Bend, and Midi Realtime messages.

## [print] object

Printing to serial console can be enabled using the `debug_printing` flag in the meta.json:

```json
{
    "daisy": {
        "debug_printing": true
    }
}
```

This will increase the program size with a few kb and will disable `usb_midi` as we currently do not have composite USB device yet.

## Custom samplerate and blocksize

This can be done by adding either to the meta.json:

```json
{
    "daisy": {
        "samplerate": 96000,
        "blocksize": 128
    }
}
```

Do note that the samplerate will be automatically set to either 16k, 32k, 48k, or 96k. Blocksize will need to be 256 or less and is automatically capped.

## Custom Linker script and Bootloader APP_TYPE

Using the Daisy bootloader you can flash the program to other parts of the Daisy memory. Read the [libDaisy documentation](https://github.com/electro-smith/libDaisy/blob/master/doc/md/_a7_Getting-Started-Daisy-Bootloader.md) for more information.

The linker and `APP_TYPE` can be set in the json metadata accordingly:

```json
{
    "daisy": {
        "linker_script": <path_to_lds_file>,
        "bootloader": <APP_TYPE>
    }
}
```